website/content/docs/configuration/controller.mdx, before:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Controller - Configuration
description: |-
  The controller stanza configures controller-specifc parameters.
---

# `controller` Stanza

The `controller` stanza configures Boundary controller-specific parameters.

```hcl
controller {
  name = "example-controller"
  description = "An example controller"
  database {
    url = "postgresql://<username>:<password>@10.0.0.1:5432/<database_name>"
    max_open_connections = 5
  }
}
```

- `name` - Specifies a unique name of this controller within the Boundary
  cluster. This value can be a direct name string, can refer to a file on disk
  (file://) from which an name will be read; or an env var (env://) from which
  the name will be read.

- `description` - Specifies a friendly description of this controller. This value can be a direct description string,
can refer to a file on disk (file://) from which a description will be read; or an env var (env://) from which the
description will be read.

- `database` - Configuration block with two valid parameters for connecting to Postgres:

  - `url` - Configures the URL for connecting to Postgres. If your Postgres server has TLS disabled,
    Boundary will not be able to connect by default. To run Boundary without a TLS connection
    to Postgres (not recommended for production usage), add the `sslmode=disable` parameter to
    your connection string, such as `url = "postgresql://postgres:boundary@192.168.1.1:5432/boundary?sslmode=disable"`
  - `migration_url` - Can be used to specify a different URL for migrations, as that
    usually requires higher privileges.
  - `max_open_connections` - Can be used to control the maximum number of
    connections that can be opened by the controller.
    The minimum number of connections required is 5.
    Setting this value to 0 will allow the controller to open as many
    connections as needed. This value can be a string representing the max number of connections, can refer to a file
    on disk (file://) from which the number of connections will be read; or an env var (env://) from which the
    number of connections will be read.

  Either URL can refer to a file on disk (file://) from which a URL will be read; an env
  var (env://) from which the URL will be read; or a direct database URL (postgres://).

- `public_cluster_addr` - Specifies the public host or IP address (and
  optionally port) at which the controller can be reached _by workers_. This will
  be used by workers after initial connection to controllers via the worker's
  `controllers` block. This defaults to the address of the listener marked for
  `cluster` purpose. This is especially useful for cloud environments that do not
  bind a publicly accessible IP to a NIC on the host directly, such as an Amazon
  EIP. This value can be a direct address string, can refer to a file on disk (file://)
  from which an address will be read; an env var (env://) from which the
  address will be read; or a [go-sockaddr template](https://godoc.org/github.com/hashicorp/go-sockaddr/template).

- `auth_token_time_to_live` - Maximum time to live (TTL) for all auth tokens globally (pertains
  to all tokens from all auth methods). Valid time units are anything specified by Golang's
  [ParseDuration()](https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration) method. Default is 7 days.

- `auth_token_time_to_stale` - Maximum time of inactivity for all auth tokens globally (pertains
  to all tokens from all auth methods). Valid time units are anything specified by Golang's
  [ParseDuration()](https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration) method. Default is 1 day.

- `graceful_shutdown_wait_duration` - Amount of time Boundary will wait before initiating the shutdown procedure,
  after receiving a shutdown signal. In this state, Boundary still processes requests as normal but replies 
  with `503 Service Unavailable` to any health requests. This is designed to allow an operator to configure
  load-balancers to preemptively stop new traffic to a Boundary instance that is going away. Valid time units
  are anything specified by Go's [ParseDuration()](https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration) method. Only
  used when an `ops` listener is set and the Controller is present. Default is 0 seconds.

## KMS Configuration

The controller requires two KMS stanzas for `root` and `worker-auth` purposes:

```hcl
# Root KMS configuration block: this is the root key for Boundary
# Use a production KMS such as AWS KMS in production installs
kms "aead" {
  purpose = "root"
  aead_type = "aes-gcm"
  key = "sP1fnF5Xz85RrXyELHFeZg9Ad2qt4Z4bgNHVGtD6ung="
  key_id = "global_root"
}

# Worker authorization KMS
# Use a production KMS such as AWS KMS for production installs
# This key is the same key used in the worker configuration
kms "aead" {
  purpose = "worker-auth"
  aead_type = "aes-gcm"
  key = "8fZBjCUfN0TzjEGLQldGY4+iE9AkOvCfjh7+p0GtRBQ="
  key_id = "global_worker-auth"
}
```

And optionally, a KMS stanza for recovery purpose:

```hcl
# Recovery KMS block: configures the recovery key for Boundary
# Use a production KMS such as AWS KMS for production installs
kms "aead" {
  purpose = "recovery"
  aead_type = "aes-gcm"
  key = "8fZBjCUfN0TzjEGLQldGY4+iE9AkOvCfjh7+p0GtRBQ="
  key_id = "global_recovery"
}
```

And optionally, a KMS stanza for configuration encryption purpose:

```hcl
# Configuration encryption block: decrypts sensitive values in the
# configuration file. See `boundary config [encrypt|decrypt] -h`.
kms "aead" {
  purpose   = "config"`
  aead_type = "aes-gcm"
  key       = "7xtkEoS5EXPbgynwd+dDLHopaCqK8cq0Rpep4eooaTs="
}
```

Boundary supports many kinds of KMS integrations. For a complete guide to all available
KMS types, see our [KMS documentation](/docs/configuration/kms).

# Complete Configuration Example

```hcl
# Disable memory lock: https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/mlock.2.html
disable_mlock = true

# Controller configuration block
controller {
  # This name attr must be unique across all controller instances if running in HA mode
  name = "demo-controller-1"
  description = "A controller for a demo!"

  # After receiving a shutdown signal, Boundary will wait 10s before initiating the shutdown process.
  graceful_shutdown_wait_duration = "10s"

  # Database URL for postgres. This can be a direct "postgres://"
  # URL, or it can be "file://" to read the contents of a file to
  # supply the url, or "env://" to name an environment variable
  # that contains the URL.
  database {
	  url = "postgresql://boundary:boundarydemo@postgres.yourdomain.com:5432/boundary"
  }
}

# API listener configuration block
listener "tcp" {
  # Should be the address of the NIC that the controller server will be reached on
  address = "10.0.0.1"
  # The purpose of this listener block
  purpose = "api"

  tls_disable = false

  # Uncomment to enable CORS for the Admin UI. Be sure to set the allowed origin(s)
  # to appropriate values.
  #cors_enabled = true
  #cors_allowed_origins = ["https://yourcorp.yourdomain.com", "serve://boundary"]
}

# Data-plane listener configuration block (used for worker coordination)
listener "tcp" {
  # Should be the IP of the NIC that the worker will connect on
  address = "10.0.0.1"
  # The purpose of this listener
  purpose = "cluster"
}

listener "tcp" {
  # Should be the address of the NIC where your external systems'
  # (eg: Load-Balancer) will connect on.
  address = "10.0.0.1"
  # The purpose of this listener block
  purpose = "ops"

  tls_disable = false
}

# Root KMS configuration block: this is the root key for Boundary
# Use a production KMS such as AWS KMS in production installs
kms "aead" {
  purpose = "root"
  aead_type = "aes-gcm"
  key = "sP1fnF5Xz85RrXyELHFeZg9Ad2qt4Z4bgNHVGtD6ung="
  key_id = "global_root"
}

# Worker authorization KMS
# Use a production KMS such as AWS KMS for production installs
# This key is the same key used in the worker configuration
kms "aead" {
  purpose = "worker-auth"
  aead_type = "aes-gcm"
  key = "8fZBjCUfN0TzjEGLQldGY4+iE9AkOvCfjh7+p0GtRBQ="
  key_id = "global_worker-auth"
}

# Recovery KMS block: configures the recovery key for Boundary
# Use a production KMS such as AWS KMS for production installs
kms "aead" {
  purpose = "recovery"
  aead_type = "aes-gcm"
  key = "8fZBjCUfN0TzjEGLQldGY4+iE9AkOvCfjh7+p0GtRBQ="
  key_id = "global_recovery"
}
```

Commit message:

feat(config): Add database config options for idle connection management
This adds two new config options for the `database` stanza:

- `max_idle_connections`
- `max_idle_time`

These correspond to settings for the underlying `sql.DB` instance. They
can be used to have finer control over the controller's database
connection pool. For example this can be used to mitigate the high
connection overhead when connecting to postgres by setting a high
`max_idle_connections` and either setting `max_idle_time` to zero or to
a high duration.

Alternatively, if using a connection pool like pgpool-II or pgbouncer,
`max_idle_connections` can be set to 0.

See:
    https://pkg.go.dev/database/sql#DB.SetMaxIdleConns
    https://pkg.go.dev/database/sql#DB.SetConnMaxIdleTime
    https://www.pgpool.net/mediawiki/index.php/Main_Page
    https://www.pgbouncer.org/

website/content/docs/configuration/controller.mdx, after:

---
layout: docs
page_title: Controller - Configuration
description: |-
  The controller stanza configures controller-specifc parameters.
---

# `controller` Stanza

The `controller` stanza configures Boundary controller-specific parameters.

```hcl
controller {
  name = "example-controller"
  description = "An example controller"
  database {
    url = "postgresql://<username>:<password>@10.0.0.1:5432/<database_name>"
    max_open_connections = 5
  }
}
```

- `name` - Specifies a unique name of this controller within the Boundary
  cluster. This value can be a direct name string, can refer to a file on disk
  (file://) from which an name will be read; or an env var (env://) from which
  the name will be read.

- `description` - Specifies a friendly description of this controller. This value can be a direct description string,
can refer to a file on disk (file://) from which a description will be read; or an env var (env://) from which the
description will be read.

- `database` - Configuration block with two valid parameters for connecting to Postgres:

  - `url` - Configures the URL for connecting to Postgres. If your Postgres server has TLS disabled,
    Boundary will not be able to connect by default. To run Boundary without a TLS connection
    to Postgres (not recommended for production usage), add the `sslmode=disable` parameter to
    your connection string, such as `url = "postgresql://postgres:boundary@192.168.1.1:5432/boundary?sslmode=disable"`
    This value can refer to a file on disk (file://) from which a URL will be read; an env
    var (env://) from which the URL will be read; or a direct database URL (postgres://).
  - `migration_url` - Can be used to specify a different URL for migrations, as that
    usually requires higher privileges.
    This value can refer to a file on disk (file://) from which a URL will be read; an env
    var (env://) from which the URL will be read; or a direct database URL (postgres://).
  - `max_open_connections` - Can be used to control the maximum number of
    connections that can be opened by the controller.
    The minimum number of connections required is 5.
    Setting this value to 0 will allow the controller to open as many
    connections as needed. This value can be an integer representing the max number of connections, can refer to a file
    on disk (file://) from which the number of connections will be read; or an env var (env://) from which the
    number of connections will be read.
  - `max_idle_connections` - Can be used to control the maximum number of
    idle connections in the idle connection pool.
    If `max_open_connections` is greater than 0 but less than
    `max_idle_connections`, then `max_idle_connections` will be reduced to match the `max_open_connections` limit. 
    Setting this value to 0 will mean that no idle connections are retained.
    If not set or set to less than 0, the default
    [sql.DB](https://pkg.go.dev/database/sql#DB.SetMaxIdleConns) setting will be used.
    This value can be an integer representing the max number of connections, can refer to a file
    on disk (file://) from which the number of connections will be read; or an env var (env://) from which the
    number of connections will be read.
  - `max_idle_time` - Can be used to control the maximum amount of time
    a connection may be idle.
    Setting this value to 0 will mean that connections are not closed due to a
    connections idle time.
    If not set or set to less than 0, the default
    [sql.DB](https://pkg.go.dev/database/sql#DB.SetConnMaxIdleTime) setting will be used.

- `public_cluster_addr` - Specifies the public host or IP address (and
  optionally port) at which the controller can be reached _by workers_. This will
  be used by workers after initial connection to controllers via the worker's
  `controllers` block. This defaults to the address of the listener marked for
  `cluster` purpose. This is especially useful for cloud environments that do not
  bind a publicly accessible IP to a NIC on the host directly, such as an Amazon
  EIP. This value can be a direct address string, can refer to a file on disk (file://)
  from which an address will be read; an env var (env://) from which the
  address will be read; or a [go-sockaddr template](https://godoc.org/github.com/hashicorp/go-sockaddr/template).

- `auth_token_time_to_live` - Maximum time to live (TTL) for all auth tokens globally (pertains
  to all tokens from all auth methods). Valid time units are anything specified by Golang's
  [ParseDuration()](https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration) method. Default is 7 days.

- `auth_token_time_to_stale` - Maximum time of inactivity for all auth tokens globally (pertains
  to all tokens from all auth methods). Valid time units are anything specified by Golang's
  [ParseDuration()](https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration) method. Default is 1 day.

- `graceful_shutdown_wait_duration` - Amount of time Boundary will wait before initiating the shutdown procedure,
  after receiving a shutdown signal. In this state, Boundary still processes requests as normal but replies 
  with `503 Service Unavailable` to any health requests. This is designed to allow an operator to configure
  load-balancers to preemptively stop new traffic to a Boundary instance that is going away. Valid time units
  are anything specified by Go's [ParseDuration()](https://golang.org/pkg/time/#ParseDuration) method. Only
  used when an `ops` listener is set and the Controller is present. Default is 0 seconds.

## KMS Configuration

The controller requires two KMS stanzas for `root` and `worker-auth` purposes:

```hcl
# Root KMS configuration block: this is the root key for Boundary
# Use a production KMS such as AWS KMS in production installs
kms "aead" {
  purpose = "root"
  aead_type = "aes-gcm"
  key = "sP1fnF5Xz85RrXyELHFeZg9Ad2qt4Z4bgNHVGtD6ung="
  key_id = "global_root"
}

# Worker authorization KMS
# Use a production KMS such as AWS KMS for production installs
# This key is the same key used in the worker configuration
kms "aead" {
  purpose = "worker-auth"
  aead_type = "aes-gcm"
  key = "8fZBjCUfN0TzjEGLQldGY4+iE9AkOvCfjh7+p0GtRBQ="
  key_id = "global_worker-auth"
}
```

And optionally, a KMS stanza for recovery purpose:

```hcl
# Recovery KMS block: configures the recovery key for Boundary
# Use a production KMS such as AWS KMS for production installs
kms "aead" {
  purpose = "recovery"
  aead_type = "aes-gcm"
  key = "8fZBjCUfN0TzjEGLQldGY4+iE9AkOvCfjh7+p0GtRBQ="
  key_id = "global_recovery"
}
```

And optionally, a KMS stanza for configuration encryption purpose:

```hcl
# Configuration encryption block: decrypts sensitive values in the
# configuration file. See `boundary config [encrypt|decrypt] -h`.
kms "aead" {
  purpose   = "config"`
  aead_type = "aes-gcm"
  key       = "7xtkEoS5EXPbgynwd+dDLHopaCqK8cq0Rpep4eooaTs="
}
```

Boundary supports many kinds of KMS integrations. For a complete guide to all available
KMS types, see our [KMS documentation](/docs/configuration/kms).

# Complete Configuration Example

```hcl
# Disable memory lock: https://www.man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/mlock.2.html
disable_mlock = true

# Controller configuration block
controller {
  # This name attr must be unique across all controller instances if running in HA mode
  name = "demo-controller-1"
  description = "A controller for a demo!"

  # After receiving a shutdown signal, Boundary will wait 10s before initiating the shutdown process.
  graceful_shutdown_wait_duration = "10s"

  # Database URL for postgres. This can be a direct "postgres://"
  # URL, or it can be "file://" to read the contents of a file to
  # supply the url, or "env://" to name an environment variable
  # that contains the URL.
  database {
	  url = "postgresql://boundary:boundarydemo@postgres.yourdomain.com:5432/boundary"
  }
}

# API listener configuration block
listener "tcp" {
  # Should be the address of the NIC that the controller server will be reached on
  address = "10.0.0.1"
  # The purpose of this listener block
  purpose = "api"

  tls_disable = false

  # Uncomment to enable CORS for the Admin UI. Be sure to set the allowed origin(s)
  # to appropriate values.
  #cors_enabled = true
  #cors_allowed_origins = ["https://yourcorp.yourdomain.com", "serve://boundary"]
}

# Data-plane listener configuration block (used for worker coordination)
listener "tcp" {
  # Should be the IP of the NIC that the worker will connect on
  address = "10.0.0.1"
  # The purpose of this listener
  purpose = "cluster"
}

listener "tcp" {
  # Should be the address of the NIC where your external systems'
  # (eg: Load-Balancer) will connect on.
  address = "10.0.0.1"
  # The purpose of this listener block
  purpose = "ops"

  tls_disable = false
}

# Root KMS configuration block: this is the root key for Boundary
# Use a production KMS such as AWS KMS in production installs
kms "aead" {
  purpose = "root"
  aead_type = "aes-gcm"
  key = "sP1fnF5Xz85RrXyELHFeZg9Ad2qt4Z4bgNHVGtD6ung="
  key_id = "global_root"
}

# Worker authorization KMS
# Use a production KMS such as AWS KMS for production installs
# This key is the same key used in the worker configuration
kms "aead" {
  purpose = "worker-auth"
  aead_type = "aes-gcm"
  key = "8fZBjCUfN0TzjEGLQldGY4+iE9AkOvCfjh7+p0GtRBQ="
  key_id = "global_worker-auth"
}

# Recovery KMS block: configures the recovery key for Boundary
# Use a production KMS such as AWS KMS for production installs
kms "aead" {
  purpose = "recovery"
  aead_type = "aes-gcm"
  key = "8fZBjCUfN0TzjEGLQldGY4+iE9AkOvCfjh7+p0GtRBQ="
  key_id = "global_recovery"
}
```
